KIP-82: A New GC Reward Structure Due to Abolition of the Gini Coefficient (#82)
klaytn/kips: KIPs/kip-82.md

---
kip: 82
title: A new GC reward structure due to abolition of the Gini coefficient
author: Yeri<yeriel.lee@krustuniverse.com>, Daniel<daniel.cc@krustuniverse.com>, Aidan<aidan.kwon@krustuniverse.com>, Ollie<ollie.j@krustuniverse.com>, Sam<sam.seo@krustuniverse.com>, Uno<uno.lee@krustuniverse.com>, Eddie<eddie.kim0@krustuniverse.com>
discussion-to: https://govforum.klaytn.foundation/t/proposal-a-new-gc-reward-structure-to-abolition-of-the-gini-coefficient/21
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2022-09-21
---

## Simple Summary
A renewal of the Governance Council(GC) reward structure due to abolition of the Gini coefficient.

## Abstract

> In addition to traditional enterprises, Klaytn is expanding the Governance Council (GC) by bringing DAOs in response to the growth of nontraditional entities. Such a change in the GC ecosystem will restructure the entire Klaytn governance structure. Abolishing the current block proposal selection method based on the Gini coefficient and staking quantity, the new reward program alleviates the problem of providing insufficient compensation for the network contribution and block verification due to lack of staking. The instability of certain nodes with high staking amounts can result in poor network stability as a whole. The renewed structure enables to reward the staking amount regardless of block miner by providing 20% total rewards for block generation and 80% based on staking amount. This form is to reward the participants for providing network stability with node operation and financial contribution.

Reviewer: Since the reward ratios, such as 20% for the block proposer reward and 80% for the staking reward, might need to be changed in the future depending on the node operation cost, it would be good to have the reward ratios as governance parameters so GC can change them when necessary. @yeri-lee @aidan-kwon @blukat29 What do you think?

Reviewer: I'd like to suggest to have a separate paragraph to describe these numbers, 20% and 80%, and to mention that they could be changed in the future by GC voting and they are used in this KIP as an initial proposal.

Reviewer 2: The 20/80 ratio is indeed a governance parameter. It just wasn't highlighted in the document.

```
reward.usekip82: bool = false
reward.kip82ratio: string = "20/80"
```

I agree it's worth mentioning that the ratio is tentative and can be changed by GC governance.

Reviewer 2: Added 6cfa539.

## Motivation

> Klaytn has been compensating GC with block creation rewards based on the quantity of staking and the Gini coefficient. This included rewards incurred by minting and gas fee rewards generated by transactions during block creation. As mentioned in the Klaytn 2.0 Lightpaper<https://klaytn.foundation/wp-content/uploads/Lightpaper.pdf>, Klaytn is abolishing the Gini coefficient since this measure demotivates members from staking. Discontinuation of the Gini coefficient increases the risk to network stability due to the expanding reliance on certain nodes. This change ultimately calls for the revision of block proposer selection and reward structure. In an effort to enhance individual voting power and promote ultimate decentralization, we aim to accomplish the following changes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Klaytn has been compensating GC with block creation rewards based on the quantity of staking and the Gini coefficient. This included rewards incurred by minting and gas fee rewards generated by transactions during block creation. As mentioned in the [Klaytn 2.0 Lightpaper](https://klaytn.foundation/wp-content/uploads/Lightpaper.pdf), Klaytn is abolishing the Gini coefficient since this measure demotivates members from staking. Discontinuation of the Gini coefficient increases the risk to network stability due to the expanding reliance on certain nodes. This change ultimately calls for the revision of block proposer selection and reward structure. In an effort to enhance individual voting power and promote ultimate decentralization, we aim to accomplish the following changes:
```

The block proposal method will be based on equal selection regardless of the staking amount. The current model provides a block generation reward based on staking amount and the Gini-coefficient. Until now, the Gini coefficient was utilized to alleviate the chance of an entity with more staking amount being selected as a block proposer. As this model provided a fairly equal chance to every participant, each node was promised a certain amount of rewards.

In the new method, the reward for node operation is required since the staking amount is not considered in the proposal selection process. Therefore, 20 percent of the total reward amount will be placed as a node operation reward.

Node operators will also be compensated with the staking for enhancing network stability from an economic standpoint. The opportunity cost incurred from staking is rewarded based on inflation. In this system, inflation provides a tax-like common effect. Public users can also participate and receive rewards through the GC-run public staking program.

> Of the 300 million KLAYs that are minted annually, only 100 million go to GC, and 20% and 80% of the distribution is from this 100 million. The renewal separates GC reward into two groups: basic reward and staked reward. The basic reward is compensating for node operation by providing 20% of GC reward and 100% of gas fee resources from transactions. The staked reward provides only the rest of 80% of the minting resource based on the total stake amount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of September 21st, 2022, of the 300 million KLAY that is minted annually, only 100 million KLAY goes to GC, and 20% and 80% of the distribution is from this 100 million KLAY. The renewal separates GC reward into two groups: basic reward and staked reward. The basic reward is compensating for node operation by providing 20% of GC reward and 100% of gas fee resources from transactions. The staked reward provides only the rest of 80% of the minting resource based on the total stake amount.
```

![gc reward allocation](../assets/kip-82/gc_reward_allocation.png)

> After the Magma hard fork, Klaytn has been burning the first half of the gas fee based on the KIP-71 proposal while the second half is distributed. The remaining second half is distributed into GC reward, Klaytn Improvement Reserve (KIR) and Klaytn Growth Fund (KGF).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the Magma hard fork, Klaytn has been burning the first half of the gas fee based on [the KIP-71 proposal](https://kips.klaytn.foundation/KIPs/kip-71) while the second half is distributed. The second half is distributed into GC reward, Klaytn Improvement Reserve (KIR) and Klaytn Growth Fund (KGF).
```

The renewal will include a change of gas fee as follows.

In addition to changing the reward structure, this renewal will include burning the gas fee that is provided as GC’s basic reward. The KGF and KIR portion will be excluded from the gas fee.

> If the amount of gas fee that is provided as a basic reward does not exceed a certain level, all of them will be burned. The threshold amount is 20% of minting provided as a basic reward. If the gas fee exceeds this amount, 20% will be incinerated and the additional amount will be distributed to GC.

Reviewer: @yeri-lee Since the pseudocode below uses 'burnt', it would be good to use the same past participle here as well.

Author: @smseo I have revised.

> To reduce the KLAY supply amount due to inflation, the gas fee will be burned.

Reviewer: Same here.

Author: @smseo I have revised.

class ConsolidatedNode:
    NodeAddrs: List[string] = []
    StakingAddrs: List[string] = []
    RewardAddr: string = "" # The common reward address of the CN
    StakingAmount: int = 0  # Total staking amount across StakingAddrs (in KLAY)

# Reward disribution details.
class RewardSpec:
    Minted: int = 0   # The amount minted
    Fee: int = 0      # Total tx fee spent
    Burnt: int = 0    # The amount burnt
    Proposer: int = 0    # The amount allocated to the block proposer
    Stakers: int = 0  # Total amount allocated to stakers
    Kgf: int = 0      # The amount allocated to KGF
    Kir: int = 0      # The amount allocated to KIR
    Rewards: Dict[string, int] = {}  # Mapping from reward recipient to amounts

# Distributes a given block's reward to CNs and KGF/KIR funds.
# corresponds to Klaytn's reward.RewardDistributor.DistributeBlockReward().
#
# - state is the StateDB to apply the rewards.
# - header is a Header instance.
# - config is a RewardConfig instance.
# - staking_info is a StakingInfo instance.
def distribute_block_reward(state, header, config, staking_info):
    spec = calc_deferred_reward(header, config, staking_info)

>     for addr, amount in spec.Rewrads:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    for addr, amount in spec.Rewards:
```

        state.AddBalance(addr, amount)

# Calculates the deferred rewards, which are determined at the end of block processing.
# Used in reward distribution.
# Returns a RewardSpec.
def calc_deferred_reward(header, config, staking_info):
    minted = config.MintingAmount
    fee, burnt = calc_fee_resource(header, config)

    proposer, stakers, kgf, kir, split_rem = split_reward(header, config, minted, fee)
    shares, share_rem = calc_stake_shares(config, staking_info, stakers)

    kgf += split_rem
    kgf += share_rem

    spec = RewardSpec()
    spec.Minted = minted

>     spec.Fee = fee

Reviewer 3: @blukat29 
spec.Fee is `Total tx fee spent` in RewardSpec, but it seems `calc_state_shares()` returns remaining fees.
Which is right?

Reviewer 2: Fixed `calc_fee_resource` to return `(total_fee, reward_fee, burnt_fee)`.

        kgf = resource * config.KgfRatio // config.TotalRatio
        kir = resource * config.KirRatio // config.TotalRatio

        remaining = resource - kgf - kir - cn
        return (cn, 0, kgf, kir, remaining)

# Distribute stake_reward among staked CNs
# Returns a mapping from each reward address to their reward shares,
# and remaining amount.
def calc_stake_shares(config, staking_info, stake_reward):
    if stake_reward == 0:
        return ({}, 0)

    min_stake = config.MinimumStake * 1e18
    total_stakes = 0
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:
        if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:
            total_stakes += (node.StakingAmount - config.MinimumStake)

    shares = {}
    remaining = stake_reward
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:
        if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:
            effective_stake = node.StakingAmount - min_stake
            reward_amount = stake_reward * effective_stake // total_stakes
            remaining -= reward_amount
            shares[node.RewardAddr] = reward_amount

    return (shares, remaining)

# Unlike calc_deferred_reward, this function calculates the actual reward amounts
# paid in this block. Used in klay_getReward RPC

> # Retruns a RewardSpec.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Returns a RewardSpec.
```

def calc_actual_reward(header, config, staking_info):
    spec = calc_deferred_reward(header, config, staking_info)

    # If not DeferredTxFee, include block gas fee because they were ignored in
    # calc_deferred_reward.
    if not config.DeferredTxFee:
        if header.number >= MAGMA_BLOCK_NUMBER:
            block_fee += header.GasUsed * header.BaseFee
        else:
            block_fee += header.GasUsed * config.UnitPrice
        spec.Proposer += block_fee
        spec.Rewards[header.RewardBase] += block_fee

    return spec
```

The update is expected to increase the amount of per-block state changes by number of GCs. The increase should be reasonable since the amount is significantly smaller than Klaytn's transaction processing capability.

### Reward RPC

A new JSON-RPC method is added to provide historic reward distribution details.

- Name: `klay_getRewards`

> - Description: Returns allocation details of reward distribution at specified block. If the parameter is not set, returns a breakdown of reward distribution at the lastest block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Description: Returns allocation details of reward distribution at specified block. If the parameter is not set, returns a breakdown of reward distribution at the latest block.
```

- Parameters
  1. `QUANTITY | TAG` - (optional) integer or hexadecimal block number, or the string "earlist" or "latest".
- Returns
  - `DATA`
    - `source`
      - `minted`: The amount minted
      - `fee`: Total tx fee spent
      - `burnt`: The amount burnt
    - `output`

>       - `proposer`: The amount block proposer receives

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      - `proposer`: The amount for the block proposer
```

>       - `stakers`: Total amount stakers receive
>       - `kgf`: The amount KGF receives
>       - `kir`: The amount KIR receives

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      - `stakers`: Total amount for the stakers
      - `kgf`: The amount for KGF
      - `kir`: The amount for KIR
```

    - `rewards`: A mapping from reward recipient address to reward amount
- Example
  ```
  // Request
  curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0", "method":"klay_getRewards", "params":["0x5f5e100"],"id":1}' https://api.baobab.klaytn.net:8651
  // Response
  {
    "jsonrpc":"2.0",
    "id":1,
    "result":{
      "source": {
        "minted": "9600000000000000000",
        "fee": "4616950000000000",
        "burnt": "2308475000000000",
      },
      "output": {
        "proposer": "3264784881500000000",
        "stakers": "0",
        "kgf": "5185246576500000000",
        "kir": "1152277017000000000"
      },
      "rewards": {
        "0x99fb17d324fa0e07f23b49d09028ac0919414db6": "3264784881500000000",
        "0x2bcf9d3e4a846015e7e3152a614c684de16f37c6": "5185246576500000000",
        "0x716f89d9bc333286c79db4ebb05516897c8d208a": "1152277017000000000"
      }
    }
  }
  ```

## Expected Effect
The proposed GC reward mechanism is expected to produce the following changes:
- GC members increase individual staking amount.

> - The higher number of KLAY holders receive profit from staking.

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by "higher number of KLAY"? I rephrase it like below. Is that same meaning?
```suggestion
- KLAY holders receive profit based on the staking amount of KLAY.
```

Reviewer 2: Can you rephrase @yeri-lee?

- Total Value Locked (TVL) of Klaytn increases.
- The total circulation reduces.

## Backward Compatibility
Klaytn nodes must be upgraded before FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER to correctly produce or verify blocks.

## Reference
n/a

## Copyright

> Copyright and related rights waived via CC0<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
```

    Burnt: int = 0    # The amount burnt
    Proposer: int = 0    # The amount allocated to the block proposer
    Stakers: int = 0  # Total amount allocated to stakers
    Kgf: int = 0      # The amount allocated to KGF
    Kir: int = 0      # The amount allocated to KIR
    Rewards: Dict[string, int] = {}  # Mapping from reward recipient to amounts

# Function hierarchy
# - distribute_block_reward & get_actual_reward
#   - calc_simple_reward
#   - calc_deferred_reward
#     - calc_deferred_fee
#     - calc_split
#     - calc_shares

# Distributes a given block's reward at the end of block processing.
# corresponds to Klaytn's reward.RewardDistributor.DistributeBlockReward() and MintKLAY().
#
# - state is the StateDB to apply the rewards.
# - header is a Header instance.
# - config is a RewardConfig instance.
# - staking_info is a StakingInfo instance.
# - proposerPolicy is the block proposer selection policy.
#   Valid values are out of RoundRobin, Sticky, WeightedRandom.
def distribute_block_reward(state, header, config, staking_info, proposerPolicy):
    if proposerPolicy in [RoundRobin, Sticky]:
        spec = calc_simple_reward(header, config)
    else:

>         spec = calc_deferred_reward(header, config, staking_info)

Reviewer 4: above lines are removed

    for addr, amount in spec.Rewards:
        state.AddBalance(addr, amount)

> # Returns the actual reward amounts paid in this block. Used in klay_getReward RPC

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Returns the actual reward amounts paid in this block. Used in klay_getRewards RPC
```

        remaining = resource - kgf - kir - cn
        return (cn, 0, kgf, kir, remaining)

# Distribute stake_reward among staked CNs
# Returns a mapping from each reward address to their reward shares,
# and the remaining amount.
def calc_shares(config, staking_info, stake_reward):
    min_stake = config.MinimumStake
    total_stakes = 0
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:
        if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:
            total_stakes += (node.StakingAmount - config.MinimumStake)

    shares = {}
    remaining = stake_reward
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:
        if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:
            effective_stake = node.StakingAmount - min_stake
            reward_amount = stake_reward * effective_stake // total_stakes
            remaining -= reward_amount
            shares[node.RewardAddr] = reward_amount

    return (shares, remaining)
```

The update is expected to increase the amount of per-block state changes by number of GCs. The increase should be reasonable since the amount is significantly smaller than Klaytn's transaction processing capability.

### Reward RPC

A new JSON-RPC method is added to provide historic reward distribution details.

> - Name: `klay_getRewards`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Name: `governance_getRewards`
```

---
kip: 82
title: A new GC reward structure due to abolition of the Gini coefficient
author: Yeri<yeriel.lee@krustuniverse.com>, Daniel<daniel.cc@krustuniverse.com>, Aidan<aidan.kwon@krustuniverse.com>, Ollie<ollie.j@krustuniverse.com>, Sam<sam.seo@krustuniverse.com>, Uno<uno.lee@krustuniverse.com>, Eddie<eddie.kim0@krustuniverse.com>
discussion-to: https://govforum.klaytn.foundation/t/proposal-a-new-gc-reward-structure-to-abolition-of-the-gini-coefficient/21
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2022-09-21
---

## Simple Summary
A renewal of the Governance Council(GC) reward structure due to abolition of the Gini coefficient.

## Abstract

> In addition to traditional enterprises, Klaytn is expanding the Governance Council (GC) by bringing DAOs in response to the growth of nontraditional entities. Such a change in the GC ecosystem will restructure the entire Klaytn governance structure. Abolishing the current block proposal selection method based on the Gini coefficient and staking quantity, the new reward program alleviates the problem of providing insufficient compensation for the network contribution and block verification due to lack of staking. The instability of certain nodes with high staking amounts can result in poor network stability as a whole. The renewed structure enables to reward the staking amount regardless of block miner by providing 20% total rewards for block generation and 80% based on staking amount. This form is to reward the participants for providing network stability with node operation and financial contribution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to traditional enterprises, Klaytn is expanding the Governance Council (GC) by bringing DAOs in response to the growth of nontraditional entities. Such a change in the GC ecosystem will restructure the entire Klaytn governance structure. Abolishing the current block proposal selection method based on the Gini coefficient and staking quantity, the new reward program alleviates the problem of providing insufficient compensation for the network contribution and block verification due to lack of staking. The instability of certain nodes with high staking amounts can result in poor network stability as a whole. The renewed structure provides 20% of total rewards to block proposers and the rest to the stakers. This form is to reward the participants for providing network stability with node operation and financial contribution.
```

## Motivation

> Klaytn has been compensating GC with block creation rewards based on the quantity of staking and the Gini coefficient. This included rewards incurred by minting and gas fee rewards generated by transactions during block creation. As mentioned in the [Klaytn 2.0 Lightpaper](https://klaytn.foundation/wp-content/uploads/Lightpaper.pdf), Klaytn is abolishing the Gini coefficient since this measure demotivates members from staking. Discontinuation of the Gini coefficient increases the risk to network stability due to the expanding reliance on certain nodes. This change ultimately calls for the revision of block proposer selection and reward structure. In an effort to enhance individual voting power and promote ultimate decentralization, we aim to accomplish the following changes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Klaytn has been compensating GC with block proposal rewards based on the quantity of staking and the Gini coefficient. This included rewards incurred by minting and gas fee rewards generated by transactions during block proposal. As mentioned in the [Klaytn 2.0 Lightpaper](https://klaytn.foundation/wp-content/uploads/Lightpaper.pdf), Klaytn is abolishing the Gini coefficient since this measure demotivates members from staking. Discontinuation of the Gini coefficient increases the risk to network stability due to the expanding reliance on certain nodes. This change ultimately calls for the revision of block proposer selection and reward structure. In an effort to enhance individual voting power and promote ultimate decentralization, we aim to accomplish the following changes:
```

- Ameliorate the risk that block creation depends on larger staker nodes
- Associate GC reward with the growth of the Klaytn ecosystem

## Specification

> Block generation is rewarded for the node operations that are serving as public goods in the Klaytn network. CN and PN are in charge of block creation and propagation while EN is in charge of blockchain data inquiry based on an individual's needs. The infrastructure cost remains similar, enabling some fixed benefits. Therefore, fixed compensation will be equivalent to the sum of the transaction fee and an additional block compensation, which can be both inflationary and deflationary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Block generation is rewarded for the node operations that are serving as public goods in the Klaytn network. CNs and PNs are in charge of block proposal and propagation while ENs are in charge of blockchain data inquiry based on an individual's needs. The infrastructure cost remains similar, enabling some fixed benefits. Therefore, fixed compensation will be equivalent to the sum of the transaction fee and an additional block compensation, which can be both inflationary and deflationary.
```

The block proposal method will be based on equal selection regardless of the staking amount. The current model provides a block generation reward based on staking amount and the Gini-coefficient. Until now, the Gini coefficient was utilized to alleviate the chance of an entity with more staking amount being selected as a block proposer. As this model provided a fairly equal chance to every participant, each node was promised a certain amount of rewards.

In the new method, the reward for node operation is required since the staking amount is not considered in the block proposer selection. Therefore, a certain percentage of the total reward amount will be placed as a node operation reward.

Node operators will also be compensated with the staking for enhancing network stability from an economic standpoint. The opportunity cost incurred from staking is rewarded based on inflation. In this system, inflation provides a tax-like common effect. Public users can also participate and receive rewards through the GC-run public staking program.

> As of September 21st, 2022, of the 300 million KLAY that is minted annually, only 100 million KLAY goes to GC, and 20% and 80% of the distribution is from this 100 million KLAY. The renewal separates GC reward into two groups: basic reward and staked reward. The basic reward is compensating for node operation by providing 20% of GC reward and 100% of gas fee resources from transactions. The staked reward provides only the rest of 80% of the minting resource based on the total stake amount.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As of September 21st, 2022, of the 300 million KLAY that is minted annually, only 100 million KLAY goes to GC. The renewal separates GC reward into two groups: block proposer reward and staking reward. The block proposer reward is compensating for node operation by providing 20% of the GC reward and 100% of gas fee resources from transactions. The staking reward is from 80% of the minting resource based on the total stake amount.
```

> The relative ratio of 20% and 80% is a tentative value to be used in the Cypress mainnet. However, this ratio is defined as a governance paramter GC members can change the ratio through the governance process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The relative ratio of 20% and 80% is a tentative value to be used in the Cypress mainnet. However, this ratio is defined as a governance parameter, so GC members can change the ratio through the governance process.
```

![gc reward allocation](../assets/kip-82/gc_reward_allocation.png)

> After the Magma hard fork, Klaytn has been burning the first half of the gas fee based on [the KIP-71 proposal](https://kips.klaytn.foundation/KIPs/kip-71) while the second half is distributed. The second half is distributed into GC reward, Klaytn Improvement Reserve (KIR) and Klaytn Growth Fund (KGF).

Reviewer 3: Could be good to have a title before this paragraph like:
Change of Gas Fee Distribution?

Reviewer 2: After rephrasing, the paragraphs related to fee burning became too short to make a section.

> The renewal will include a change of gas fee as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The renewal will include a change of gas fee distribution as follows.
```

In addition to changing the reward structure, this renewal will include burning the gas fee that is provided as GC’s basic reward. The KGF and KIR portion will be excluded from the gas fee.

> If the amount of gas fee that is provided as a basic reward does not exceed a certain level, all of them will be burnt. The threshold amount is 20% of minting provided as a basic reward. If the gas fee exceeds this amount, 20% will be incinerated and the additional amount will be distributed to GC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the amount of gas fee that is provided as a basic reward does not exceed a certain level, all of them will be burnt. The threshold amount is 20% of minted KLAY provided as the block proposer reward. If the gas fee exceeds this amount, the additional amount will be distributed to GC.
```

> To reduce the KLAY supply amount due to inflation, the gas fee will be burnt.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Do we need this statement?

### Klaytn node update

> The Klaytn node will be updated according to the new reward policy. The CN portion is further split into basic reward and staked reward. The staked reward is then distributed among CNs proportional to their staking shares. Their shares are calculated proportionally to their stake amounts except for the minimum staking amount.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Klaytn node will be updated according to the new reward policy. The CN portion is further split into block proposer reward and staking reward. The staking reward is then distributed among CNs proportional to their staking shares. Their shares are calculated proportionally to their stake amounts except for the minimum staking amount.
```

> Two new governance parameters fine control the new reward distribution algorithm. The default values below will be used in the Cypress mainnet. The parameters can be updated by the existing governance mechanism.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Two new governance parameters fine control the new reward distribution algorithm. The initial values below will be used in the Cypress mainnet when KIP-82 is first applied. The parameters can be updated by the existing governance mechanism.
```

> | Name                | Type   | Meaning                                              | Default Value |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Name                | Type   | Meaning                                              | Initial Value |
```

|---------------------|--------|------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `reward.usekip82`   | bool   | Whether the new algorithm is used or not             | false         |
| `reward.kip82ratio` | string | The relative ratio between basic and staking rewards | "20/80"       |

> During integer arithmetics, minuscule remaining amounts may be emitted as by-products. Such remaining amounts will be added to the proposer or KGF portion. Below pseudocode illustrates the new reward distribution algorithm. Note: `//` is round down integer division.

Reviewer 3: > Such remaining amounts will be added to the proposer or KGF portion.

@blukat29 what is the condition of the two distribution? when the remaining amount is added to the proposer? and when to KGF?

Reviewer 3: proposer: remainder of staking distribution
kgf: remainder of distribution of proposer, kir, kgf

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During integer arithmetics, minuscule remaining amounts may be emitted as by-products. Such remaining amounts will be added to the proposer or KGF portion. The proposer gets the remainder of the distribution of staking reward while the KGF gets the remainder of the distribution among the block reward, KIR, and KGF. Below pseudocode illustrates the new reward distribution algorithm. Note: `//` is round down integer division.
```

```python
from collections import defaultdict

MAGMA_BLOCK_NUMBER = 99841497

> FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER = 120000000 # TBD

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
KORE_BLOCK_NUMBER = 120000000 # TBD
```

# Block header. Only relevant fields are shown here.
class Header:
    Number: int = 0   # Block number
    GasUsed: int = 0  # Total gas spent in the block
    BaseFee: int = 0  # Base fee per gas at the block
    RewardBase: string = "" # Reward recipient address of the block proposer

# Network configurations related to reward distribution.
# Corresponds to Klaytn's reward.rewardConfig struct.
class RewardConfig:
    UnitPrice: int = 25000000000              # "governance.unitprice" parameter (in peb)
    MintingAmount: int = 9600000000000000000  # "reward.mintingamount" parameter (in peb)
    MinimumStake: int = 5000000               # "reward.minimumstake" parameter (in KLAY)
    DeferredTxFee: bool = true    # "reward.deferredtxfee" parameter

>     UseKIP82: bool = true         # "reward.usekip82" parameter (new)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    UseKIP82: bool = true         # "reward.usekip82" parameter (new). Its initial value is false, but in this example code, we explain the case when UseKIP82 = true.
```

    # "reward.ratio" parameter (e.g. "34/54/12")

>     CnRatio: int = 34

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    RewardRatio: int = 34
```

    KgfRatio: int = 54
    KirRatio: int = 12

>     TotalRatio: int = CnRatio + KgfRatio + KirRatio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TotalRatio: int = RewardRatio + KgfRatio + KirRatio
```

    # "reward.kip82ratio" parameter (e.g. "20/80") (new)

>     CnMintedBasicRatio: int = 20

Reviewer 3: @blukat29 we need to define terminology. In the figure it is denoted as GC block proposer reward, but in the code it is Basic Ratio. Which one do you prefer?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ProposingRewardRatio: int = 20
```

>     CnMintedStakeRatio: int = 80
>     CnMintedTotalRatio: int = CnMintedBasicRatio + CnMintedStakeRatio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    StakingRatio: int = 80
    RewardTotalRatio: int = ProposingRewardRatio + StakingRatio
```

# CN staking status and KGF/KIR addresses.
# Corresponds to Klaytn's reward.StakingInfo struct.
class StakingInfo:
    KIRAddr: string = ""
    KGFAddr: string = ""
    Nodes: List[ConsolidatedNode] = []

# Staking information merged under the same CN.
# Sometimes a node would register multiple NodeAddrs
# in which each entry has a different StakingAddr and the same RewardAddr.
# We treat those entries with common RewardAddr as one node.
# Corresponds to Klaytn's reward.ConsolidatedNode struct.
class ConsolidatedNode:
    NodeAddrs: List[string] = []
    StakingAddrs: List[string] = []
    RewardAddr: string = "" # The common reward address of the CN
    StakingAmount: int = 0  # Total staking amount across StakingAddrs (in KLAY)

# Reward distribution details.
class RewardSpec:

>     Minted: int = 0   # The amount minted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Minted: int = 0   # The amount newly minted
```

>     Fee: int = 0      # Total tx fee spent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TotalFee: int = 0      # Total tx fee spent
```

>     Burnt: int = 0    # The amount burnt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    BurntFee: int = 0    # The amount burnt
```

# corresponds to Klaytn's reward.RewardDistributor.DistributeBlockReward() and MintKLAY().
#
# - state is the StateDB to apply the rewards.
# - header is a Header instance.
# - config is a RewardConfig instance.
# - staking_info is a StakingInfo instance.
# - proposerPolicy is the block proposer selection policy.
#   Valid values are out of RoundRobin, Sticky, WeightedRandom.
def distribute_block_reward(state, header, config, staking_info, proposerPolicy):
    if proposerPolicy in [RoundRobin, Sticky]:
        spec = calc_simple_reward(header, config)
    else:
        spec = calc_deferred_reward(header, config, staking_info)

    for addr, amount in spec.Rewards:
        state.AddBalance(addr, amount)

# Returns the actual reward amounts paid in this block. Used in klay_getReward RPC
# Returns a RewardSpec.
def get_actual_reward(header, config, staking_info):
    if proposerPolicy in [RoundRobin, Sticky]:
        spec = calc_simple_reward(header, config)
    else:
        spec = calc_deferred_reward(header, config, staking_info)

        # If not DeferredTxFee, include block gas fee because they were ignored in
        # calc_deferred_reward.

>         if not config.DeferredTxFee:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        if config.DeferredTxFee:
```

If deferred is true, the tx fee calculation is delayed to block reward calculation.

Reviewer 2: Rephrased the comment.

```suggestion
        # Compensate the difference from calc_deferred_reward() and actual payment.
        # If not DeferredTxFee, calc_deferred_reward() assumes 0 total_fee, but
        # nonzero fee should have actually paid to the proposer.
        if not config.DeferredTxFee:
```

    if staking_info.KGFAddr is not None:
        spec.Rewards[staking_info.KGFAddr] += kgf
    if staking_info.KIRAddr is not None:
        spec.Rewards[staking_info.KIRAddr] += kir
    for reward_addr, reward_amount in shares:
        spec.Rewards[reward_addr] += reward_amount

    return spec

# Returns (total_fee, reward_fee, burnt_fee)
def calc_deferred_fee(header, config):
    # If not DeferredTxFee, fees are already added to the proposer during TX execution.
    # Therefore, there are no fees to distribute here at the end of block processing.
    if not config.DeferredTxFee:
        return (0, 0, 0)

    # Start with the total block gas fee
    if header.Number >= MAGMA_BLOCK_NUMBER:
        total = header.GasUsed * header.BaseFee
    else:
        total = header.GasUsed * config.UnitPrice
    reward = total
    burnt = 0

    # Since Magma, burn half of gas
    if header.number >= MAGMA_BLOCK_NUMBER:
        half_fee = reward / 2
        reward -= half_fee
        burnt += half_fee

    # If KIP-82 is enabled, burn fees up to BasicReward
    if header.number >= FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER and config.UseKIP82:
        minted = config.MintingAmount

>         cn_minted = minted * config.CnRatio // config.TotalRatio

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        cn_minted = minted * config.RewardRatio // config.TotalRatio
```

>     if header.number >= FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER and config.UseKIP82:
>         minted = config.MintingAmount
>         cn_minted = minted * config.CnRatio // config.TotalRatio
>         basic_reward = cn_minted * config.CnMintedBasicRatio // config.CnMintedTotalRatio
>         if reward < basic_reward:
>             burnt_kip82 = reward
>         else:
>             burnt_kip82 = basic_reward
> 
>         reward -= burnt_kip82
>         burnt += burnt_kip82

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    if header.number >= FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER and config.UseKIP82:
        minted = config.MintingAmount
        new_reward = minted * config.Reward // config.TotalRatio
        proposing_reward = new_reward * config. ProposingRewardRatio // config.RewardTotalRatio
        if reward < proposing_reward:
            burnt_kip82 = reward
        else:
            burnt_kip82 = proposing_reward

        reward -= burnt_kip82
        burnt += burnt_kip82
```

    return (total, reward, burnt)

# Returns (proposer, stakers, kgf, kir, remaining) amounts

> def calc_split(header, config, minted, fee):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def calc_block_reward(header, config, minted, fee):
```

Reviewer 2: `calc_block_reward` can be misleading because it's not calculating the block reward = (minted + total_fee). 

It's not easy to come up with a specific name. All I have is abstract names including:
- `split_rewards`
- `calc_portions`
- `distribute_reward`
- `allocate_reward`

And I wanted pure functions prefixed with `get` or `calc` to distinguish them from state-changing functions (`MintKLAY`, `DistributeBlockReward`)

That's why I chose `calc_split`. Let me know if you have other ideas.

    if header.number >= FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER and config.UseKIP82:
        resource = minted

>         cn = resource * config.CnRatio // config.TotalRatio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        reward = resource * config.RewardRatio // config.TotalRatio
```

        kgf = resource * config.KgfRatio // config.TotalRatio
        kir = resource * config.KirRatio // config.TotalRatio

        cn_basic = cn * config.CnMintedBasicRatio // config.CnMintedTotalRatio
        cn_stake = cn * config.CnMintedStakeRatio // config.CnMintedTotalRatio

        remaining = resource - kgf - kir - cn_basic - cn_stake
        return (cn_basic + fee, cn_stake, kgf, kir, remaining)
    else:
        resource = minted + fee

>         cn = resource * config.CnRatio // config.TotalRatio

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        reward = resource * config.RewardRatio // config.TotalRatio
```

        kgf = resource * config.KgfRatio // config.TotalRatio
        kir = resource * config.KirRatio // config.TotalRatio

        remaining = resource - kgf - kir - cn
        return (cn, 0, kgf, kir, remaining)

# Distribute stake_reward among staked CNs
# Returns a mapping from each reward address to their reward shares,
# and the remaining amount.
def calc_shares(config, staking_info, stake_reward):
    min_stake = config.MinimumStake
    total_stakes = 0
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:
        if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:

>             total_stakes += (node.StakingAmount - config.MinimumStake)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            total_stakes += (node.StakingAmount - min_stake)
```

    shares = {}
    remaining = stake_reward
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:
        if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:
            effective_stake = node.StakingAmount - min_stake
            reward_amount = stake_reward * effective_stake // total_stakes
            remaining -= reward_amount
            shares[node.RewardAddr] = reward_amount

    return (shares, remaining)
```

> The update is expected to increase the amount of per-block state changes by number of GCs. The increase should be reasonable since the amount is significantly smaller than Klaytn's transaction processing capability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The update is expected to increase the balance of every GC member's reward account in every block. The performance of this increase should be reasonable since the number of GC members is significantly smaller than Klaytn's transaction processing capability.
```

> ### Reward RPC

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Reward RPC API
```

> A new JSON-RPC method is added to provide historic reward distribution details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new JSON-RPC method is needed to be added to provide historic reward distribution details.
```

    - `rewards`: A mapping from reward recipient addresses to reward amounts
- Example
  ```
  // Request
  curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data '{"jsonrpc":"2.0", "method":"klay_getRewards", "params":["0x5f5e100"],"id":1}' https://api.baobab.klaytn.net:8651
  // Response
  {
    "jsonrpc":"2.0",
    "id":1,
    "result":{
      "minted": "9600000000000000000",
      "fee": "4616950000000000",
      "burnt": "2308475000000000",
      "proposer": "3264784881500000000",
      "stakers": "0",
      "kgf": "5185246576500000000",
      "kir": "1152277017000000000"
      "rewards": {
        "0x99fb17d324fa0e07f23b49d09028ac0919414db6": "3264784881500000000",
        "0x2bcf9d3e4a846015e7e3152a614c684de16f37c6": "5185246576500000000",
        "0x716f89d9bc333286c79db4ebb05516897c8d208a": "1152277017000000000"
      }
    }
  }
  ```

## Expected Effect
The proposed GC reward mechanism is expected to produce the following changes:
- GC members increase individual staking amount.
- KLAY holders receive profit based on the staking amount of KLAY.
- Total Value Locked (TVL) of Klaytn increases.
- The total circulation reduces.

## Backward Compatibility

> Klaytn nodes must be upgraded before FORK_BLOCK_NUMBER to correctly produce or verify blocks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Klaytn nodes must be upgraded before KORE_BLOCK_NUMBER to correctly produce or verify blocks.
```

    spec.Rewards[header.RewardBase] += proposer
    # If KGF address is not set, proposer gets the portion.
    if staking_info.KGFAddr is None:
        spec.Rewards[header.RewardBase] += kgf
    else:
        spec.Rewards[staking_info.KGFAddr] += kgf
    # If KIR address is not set, proposer gets the portion.
    if staking_info.KIRAddr is None:
        spec.Rewards[header.RewardBase] += kir
    else:
        spec.Rewards[staking_info.KIRAddr] += kir

    for reward_addr, reward_amount in shares:
        spec.Rewards[reward_addr] += reward_amount
    return spec

# Returns (total_fee, reward_fee, burnt_fee)
def calc_deferred_fee(header, config):
    # If not DeferredTxFee, fees are already added to the proposer during TX execution.
    # Therefore, there are no fees to distribute here at the end of block processing.
    if not config.DeferredTxFee:
        return (0, 0, 0)

    # Start with the total block gas fee
    if header.Number >= MAGMA_BLOCK_NUMBER:
        total = header.GasUsed * header.BaseFee
    else:
        total = header.GasUsed * config.UnitPrice
    reward = total
    burnt = 0

    # Since Magma, burn half of gas
    if header.number >= MAGMA_BLOCK_NUMBER:

>         half_fee = fee / 2

Reviewer 4: fee -> total

Reviewer 2: Fixed 6cd9ff2.

        cn_basic = cn * config.CnMintedBasicRatio // config.CnMintedTotalRatio
        cn_stake = cn * config.CnMintedStakeRatio // config.CnMintedTotalRatio

        remaining = resource - kgf - kir - cn_basic - cn_stake
        return (cn_basic + fee, cn_stake, kgf, kir, remaining)
    else:
        resource = minted + fee

        cn = resource * config.CnRatio // config.TotalRatio
        kgf = resource * config.KgfRatio // config.TotalRatio
        kir = resource * config.KirRatio // config.TotalRatio

        remaining = resource - kgf - kir - cn
        return (cn, 0, kgf, kir, remaining)

# Distribute stake_reward among staked CNs
# Returns a mapping from each reward address to their reward shares,
# and the remaining amount.
def calc_shares(config, staking_info, stake_reward):
    if stake_reward == 0:
        return ({}, 0)

    min_stake = config.MinimumStake * 1e18
    total_stakes = 0
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:
        if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:
            total_stakes += (node.StakingAmount - config.MinimumStake)

    shares = {}
    remaining = stake_reward
    for node in staking_info.Nodes:

>         if node.StakingAmount > min_stake:

Reviewer 4: The unit of node.StakingAmount is Klay, and that of min_stake is Peb.
